In this lecture we're going to explore how to create a rich text block a rich text block is a block
that allows you to write content with formatting.
It's the equivalent of adding a tiny MCP editor.
You can make text bold and italicized.
This shouldn't be confused with a text area field as text area doesn't allow for formatting to get started.
I've provided some starter files in the resource section of this lecture.
Download it and unzip the contents inside the blocks slash after victory of our plugin.
There should be a folder called Rich Text blocks with a single J.S. file.
If you open this you'll find that I'm just importing some components and registering a new block.
This code won't work because we aren't importing it.
Why don't you give that a try.
Pause the video and try importing this so that web page can process it.
Welcome back.
If you were able to do this then that's great.
If not that's fine as well.
Let's do it together.
Open the app slash index stat J.S. file.
This is where we import our blocks right below the recipe block.
Add the following.
Import rich text block that's all we have to do now the block will be loaded properly.
Let's switch back to the rich text block.
A lot of this should be familiar to you.
I'm naming my block you to me rich text.
The settings have been simplified.
I didn't bother adding the keywords since this is a simple example.
The attributes are currently empty.
We'll be adding an attribute soon enough.
The edit function is returning a simple div tag with a title the save function isn't returning anything
at all.
This should be enough to get us started the process for all of this should be straightforward.
First we'll import any necessary components then we'll define the attributes.
Next we'll load the component inside the edit function.
Lastly will render the block the component we're going to need will come from the DWP dot Ed object
will D structure it and grab the rich text component
the rich text component will allow the user to edit the contents inside of it while also allowing them
to form out their content.
The next step is to create the attribute.
I'm going to create an attribute called message the type for this will be array
previously we used stream.
However this time we're not just storing text we're storing elements and attributes as well.
The rich text component will generate a lot of content and so an array is ideal for multiple pieces
of content.
The source will be children once again the content generated will be complex.
When WordPress is extracting the data from the content it will need to grab everything.
This includes text elements attributes and anything that is nested that children value will instruct
it to do so.
The selector will be dot message container this element doesn't exist but we'll be creating it soon
enough.
The attribute is now ready.
Let's move onto the edit function right below the H3 element and the rich text component the rich text
component requires quite a few attributes in the resource section of this lecture I provide a link to
the rich text component documentation.
Here you'll find information on the various attributes you can set and even some examples.
There should be an easy five example.
If you're using iOS 5 feel free to read up on this page to learn more about this component.
Let's go back to our script.
The first property we'll set is the tag name property.
Set this to div.
This will be the element that's wrapped around the content input.
You can set this to an age 3 tag if you want the content to be a title.
It's a very flexible component a div tag will do for our purposes the next property is multi line.
Set this to P. the rich text component will allow your users to create multiple line content whenever
a user presses the enter key on their keyboard then this will determine how that content is broken down
by default.
This will use a line break but I prefer to use paragraph tags for better formatting.
The next property is place holder.
Make this translatable and set it to add your content here
the next property will be on change.
Just like the other components.
This will be triggered when the user changes the content.
Set this to an arrow function that will call the prompts dot set attributes function and update the
message attribute with the new value.
The last property will set is the value property.
Set this to prompts Don attributes dot message this one should be straightforward.
It's the value or content inside the component that should finish things up.
Let's move on to the save function.
We won't have to do much to get this to work.
It's as simple as displaying the attribute.
Why don't you give this a try.
Pause the video and try displaying the content from the rich text component.
Welcome back.
If you were able to do it then congrats.
If not that's fine as well.
Let's do it together inside the function.
I'm going to return a pair of div tags.
I won't be applying the class as Gutenberg will do it for us inside this div tag.
I'm going to add the H3 tags with the message we had in the edit function.
This is not necessary but I like to add it for consistency.
Lastly I'll add another pair of div tags with the prompts dot attributes dot message inside.
Make sure to apply the message container class since that's what we specified inside the selector property
for the attribute.
That should do it.
S.D. into the blocks directory and run the NPM run Dev command.
You shouldn't see any error so far.
Once you have that compiled go ahead and create a new recipe post.
If you were to search for the rich text component you should see it appear with the title an icon.
Select the component to add it onto the editor.
It should appear without a problem.
If you check the console then you shouldn't see any errors.
Now try editing the content area you can input anything you want and even add multi line content.
I can press control B on my keyboard to make the content bold.
This is fantastic.
Let's see if things work on the front end.
Publish the post and then view the post
the content should be rendered on the front end.
Congrats you've created your first rich text block.
You can use this in several ways.
It's not practical to use this by itself since Gutenberg already has a block that does something similar
but I'm sure you'll find a use case for this.